# UXP  Glossary

UXP is based on HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. We're not going to define all the concepts in those technologies here, only the ones that are unique to UXP's implementation.         

## Application
A host application (e.g., XD, Photoshop) specific namespace that provides access to various methods that aren't specific to the host's document.

## Developer Tool
The UXP Developer Tool loads and unloads your plugins while they are in development. It also displays logs and errors generated by your plugin, helping you debug your code.

## DOM
Short for _Document Object Model_. In the case of UXP, it refers to the object model of the Host Application (e.g., XD, Photoshop, etc.).

## Dialog
Represents a user interface concept whereby a sheet or window is displayed and asks the user for more information (hence the word "dialog" -- the user and computer are dialoguing together). UXP dialogs are always _modal_: they stay on the screen until dismissed by the user.

## Dismissive Button
A dismissive button will close a dialog. Whether an action continues after the dismissal of the dialog depends upon which button is clicked. "OK", "Cancel", "Yes", "Don't Save", "Delete" can all be dismissive buttons.

## Fetch
An newer alternative to XMLHttpRequest that makes it easier to issue asynchronous requests.

## HTML
Short for _hypertext markup language_. UXP supports a subset of HTML.

## HTML5
The modern version of HTML.

## JavaScript
JavaScript is a common programming language that is used in many various contexts, including the web and on servers. Adobe UXP uses JavaScript to help leverage the existing skills of the entire JavaScript ecosystem.

## JSON
Short for JavaScript Object Notation. A data storage format, similar (in use cases but not in syntax) to XML.

## Manifest
A manifest is used to declare various facts about a plugin. For example, a manifest includes the plugin's name, a unique ID, and what functions correspond with what menu items. [Read more](./structure/manifest.md).

## React
Also known as ReactJS. A declarative, component-based JavaScript library for building user interfaces. [Learn more about React](https://reactjs.org/).

## UXP
Short for _Unified Extensibility Platform_. Adobe XD uses UXP for some of its extensibility APIs.

## XHR
Short for XMLHttpRequest.

## XMLHttpRequest
An network I/O API that can be used to request information from local and remote endpoints. [See documentation](./uxp/class/XMLHttpRequest.md).

## WebSocket
A network I/O API that enables real-time communication with local and remote endpoints. [See documentation](./uxp/class/WebSocket.md).